Java Email Server - Eric Daugherty
java@ericdaugherty.com
http://www.ericdaugherty.com/java/mailserver
--------------------------------------------

Revision History
----------------

1.6.1 - Release TBD

Updated mail.conf to remove extra trailing semicolin from "smtpdelivery.threshold=10" Thanks to Siegfried Goeschl 
(siegfried.goeschl@it20one.at).

Updated mail.sh to accept a configuration directory as a command line parameter.  Thanks to Siegfried Goeschl 
(siegfried.goeschl@it20one.at).

Updated bulid.xml to build with JDK version 1.4 (minimun needed for codebase).  Thanks to Siegfried Goeschl 
(siegfried.goeschl@it20one.at).

Fixed error in SMTPRemoteSender introduced in release 1.5.  Server would fail to look up MX entries when
not using a default SMTP server.  Thanks to Philipp Hagemeister for tracking this issue down.

1.6 - Release 11/18/2007

Server adds FROM address if message is received without one (unknown@example.com).  Server would
accept the messages but throw errors when it tried to deliver them: "Unable to parse the address from the stored file."
Thanks to Matthew Lohbihler of Serotonin Software (serotoninsoftware.com) for providing this fix.

Added socket timeout to SMTP processor sockets.  This may address issues with threads getting hung in socket.read calls.
Thanks to Matthew Lohbihler of Serotonin Software (serotoninsoftware.com) for providing this fix.

1.5 - Release 08/05/2007

New Features:

Added the ability to use a default SMTP server that requires authentication.  This
can be useful if your ISP prohibits outbound connections on port 25 and forces you 
to authenticate with their default SMTP server.  Thanks to Matthew Lohbihler of 
Serotonin Software (serotoninsoftware.com) for adding this feature.

1.4 - Release 07/13/2004

New Features:

Added the option to limit the maximum size for incoming messages.  The
configuration parameter is in megabytes (2^10) and defaults to 5.

Added the ability to specify a port number for the outgoing SMPT servers.
Thanks to Philippe Reverdy (http://preverdy.free.fr/preverdy/utilities.html)

Added new configuration option to allow relaying based on 'from' email
address.  This can be used to easily allow relaying for users
based their address or an entire domain.  However, this can be risky
and should be used with cation as there is no protection from others
'spoofing' the from address to send spam.
Thanks to Philippe Reverdy (http://preverdy.free.fr/preverdy/utilities.html)

1.3.4 - Release 02/12/2004

New Features:

Added a maximum delivery attempts configuration property before a message fails.
Message re-delivery attempt intervals are exponentially increased, up to a maximum
interval of 17 hours (1024 minutes).  Thanks to Andrei Makalski and
Al Lieb (ootletemp-jes@yahoo.com) for their contributions.

Bug Fixes:

Miscellaneous code cleanup:
Cleaned up SMTPSender try/catch block.
Added logic to handle null result of DNS Lookup.
Fixed issue with MX entry sorting.
Thanks to Al Lieb (ootletemp-jes@yahoo.com) for the patches.

1.3.3 - Release 11/24/2003

New Features:

Addes a new header "X-DeliveredTo: admin@mydomain.com" to locally delivered email.
This allows users who use multiple local addresses that are delivered to a single
mail box to track which user the message was addressed to.  Thanks to Shmuel Siegel
for the suggestion.

Bug Fixes:

Fixed error with delivery address resolution. SourceForge Bug #848417.  The resolution
of the local address was also incorrect and has been fixed.
Thanks to Shmuel Siegel for the bug report.

Fixed handling of blank listenAddress.  Previous version default to the localhost name,
while the new version uses the simpler ServerSocket constructor.
Thanks to Shmuel Siegel for the bug report.

1.3.2 - Release 11/18/2003

New Features:

Added test DNS lookup utility and additional site documentation,
thanks to Martin Cordova <mcordova@megasoft.com.ve>

Added ability to bind JES to a single IP address.

Bug Fixes:

Resolved an issue with the loading of forward addresses from the 
user.conf file.

Forward Addresses are now resolved when the message is received.
Previously, message delivery to forwarded addresses could be
unpredictable of one of the multiple forward addresses failed.

Added better logging to SMTPSender class.

1.3.1 - Release 10/16/2003

Bug Fixes:

Setting the defaultsmtpserver property was causing an error on startup.

Fixed handling of username case.

1.3 - Release 10/16/2003

This release contains major feature enhancements and code
rework.

New Features:

Utilize Jakarta commons-logging to remove required dependency 
of Log4j.  Default Logger just writes to the console and also
can write to a file.  Log4j is still used by default.  Log4j
configuration can now be controlled using log.conf, and updated
while the server is running.

Support for NT Service!  A batch file has been included in the bin
directory to install JES as a NT Service.  Paul Thordarson
<ptt@tgbsoftware.com> helped with the script.

Reworked configuration.  Configuration is now split into three
files: mail.conf, user.conf, log.conf.  mail.conf and user.conf
files will be reloaded automatically after a change while the server
is running.  The user.conf file can be edited with plaintext passwords,
and they will be hashed and resaved by the server automatically.  This removes
the need for the GUI configuration tool, which is now gone.

Added support for multiple SMTP Relay rules.  Can now enable POP Before SMTP
and IP based relaying individually or together.  IP Based relaying now also
supports wildcards.  These settings can be changed without restarting the server.

Bug Fixes:

The SMTP Server would accept the data command even if the
client had not specified any valid recipients.  This has been fixed.
Thanks to Shmuel Siegel for the bug report.

1.2.4 - Release 9/2/2003

Bug Fixes:

Added entry: Delivery.smtprelaytype=NONE to the default configuration
file.  This addresses bug: 768385 submitted by: mariusz_grey

Upgraded DNSJava library to 1.3.3.

Enhanced DNS lookups to order MX Entries.

Added Socket Timeout for SMTP Delivery.  This addresses bug: 783119

1.2.3 - Release 7/1/2003

New Features:

Added address based SMTP forwarding (Added by Scott Schrecken).

Bug Fixes:

Fixed JavaDoc tags and included JavaDoc comments in release.

Updated UNIX/Linux shell scripts.

1.2.2 - Release 2/7/2003

Bug Fixes:

Resolved Linux compatability issue.  Incorrect line termination
was being used by the println method.  Fix provided by: 
B0NFiRE (www.fdns.net)

1.2.1 - Release 12/30/2002

New Features:

Integrated newest release of DaughertyLib (2.0) to enable JDK 1.4 Support.

Improved implementation of the shutdown() method.  Update written by:
Siegfried Goeschl (siegfried.goeschl@it20one.at)

Added runtime hook to call the shutdown method when the VM is shutdown 
(CRTL-C from the command line).  Update written by: Siegfried Goeschl 
(siegfried.goeschl@it20one.at).
---


Version 1.2 - Release 5/20/2002

Bug Fixes:

Resolved NullPointerException in DNSService that occured when no MX Entries 
were found. 
Now allow empty MAIL FROM:<> command. 
Resolved case sensitivity in email addresses. 

New Features:

Added hook to shutdown server gracefully. Static shutdown() method added 
to Mail class.   However, this feature is not currently exposed. Users may 
wrap the Mail class to provide their own shutdown triggers. 
---


Version 1.1 - Released 10/29/2001

Changes:

Config Tool: Default User Combo Box did not refresh when a new user is added.  Fixed.
SMTP Sender was unable to handle servers with multi-line responses.  Fixed.
POP Server did not respond to RSET command.  Fixed.
Added implementation of optional UIDL and TOP commands in the POP server.
---


Version 1.0 - Released 7/16/2001


Future Enhancements
-------------------
Planned future enhancments include:

No major enhancements are planed for the 1.x version.  Development has started
on a new branch that will become the 2.0 release.