Java Email Server - Eric Daugherty - Andreas Kyrmegalos
java@ericdaugherty.com
andreask1@vivodinet.gr
http://www.ericdaugherty.com/java/mailserver
--------------------------------------------

Revision History
----------------

2.0.0 Beta 2 - Release TBD (work in progress)

Replaced all instances of StringBuffer with StringBuilder

Truly decoupled dependency on log4j. See section "Logging Facility" in AdditionalNotes.txt.

Server instance now uses a singleton pattern.

Added an option ("testing.destination") that, when set, directs all outgoing messages to the
destination (currently a folder).

Each domain gets its own default user.

A profile can now be set for the services to be activated at startup. The profile is broken
down into Mail Transfer Mode and Mail Retrieval Mode. Resource allocation is affected, but
not considerably.


2.0.0 Beta 1 - Release 06/07/2009

JES is now distributed with a BSD license.

Switched to JDK 1.5 as the source level for JES code.

Maven is now used as the project management system.

Added support for rejecting an incoming SMTP connection based on dnswl/dnsbl rules. Extended coverage
in dnsBWLists.conf.

Added support for content-filtering and virus scanning via amavisd-new using a dual-MTA setup. Details
in mail.conf. Tested with JES running on a windows box and amavisd-new on an ubuntu hardy one.

Socket ports for the incoming smtp and pop3 requests can now be updated on the fly via mail.conf.
Additionally, just after 4AM daily, the server sockets are refreshed to avoid possible issues with
winsock connection buffers (this applies to windows machines alone). When running a dual-MTA setup only
the receiving-MTA's smtp listening port is altered.

JES can now be run with a security manager, which is off by default. The relative setting must be set
to true to enable it. A jes.policy file must be located in the install directory. There are no issues with
dynamically updating listening ports since the relative port permission checking is not carried out by
the default SecurityManager method.

Due to the legacy approach dnsjava uses to actively acquire nameserver related info from the system
the nameserver and search items MUST be declared in wrapper.conf. Otherwise a <<ALL FILES>> execute
permission must be granted (in windows) or a read access to /etc (in linux) which defeats the purpose
of minimizing unrestricted access.

The directories for smtp messages, user accounts and messages received from amavis can be defined
in mail.conf and need not reside in the JES installation directory. Defaults are always supplied
for the two former cases.

SMTPProccessor, POP3Processor, SMTPRemoteSender heavily revised.

SMTPSender is now multithreaded using a threadpool consisting of 4 threads.

Substituted JavaService with Java Wrapper as the former was having issues with Java 6. Java Wrapper
however replaces the user.country, user.language, file.encoding and 'operating system' system
properties, so these have to be defined in the mail.conf file.

The shutdown process begins simultaneously for all the application modules. All the processes are allowed
to shutdown gracefully. The wrapper.jvm_exit.timeout setting in wrapper.conf defines the maximum allowed
duration of the shutdown process. When run as a wrapped console application pressing CTRL-C once begins the
shutdown process. Pressing it once more terminates the process immediately.

Updated DNSjava to version 2.0.6. Note that the included library is NOT the official pre-compiled one
but a slightly amended one. This was necessary to correct a small issue with how DNSjava obtained the
DNS servers and search path on a system with more than one network adapters. Further more, a windows
installation with a java default system language other than en,de,fr,pl would return no results. This
has been corrected for english build windows systems regardless of the regional settings.

Servers (such as hotmail) that use reverseDNS to check the validity of the domain name in the initial
greeting can be defined in a file so that mail is successfully delivered. This is extremely useful if
JES is operating over a Dynamic IP.

Considerably reduced the memory footprint (especially when dealing with messages containing attachments)
by accessing the messages incrementally from the disk and not loading the entire contents in a list. This
applies to all the cases when a message is accessed. Thus:
   a. Only the JES inserted smtp message headers are retrieved when smtp messages are being read so as to
      be queued up for delivery.
   b. When a message is being delivered locally or remotely the message contents are read from disk
      incrementally.
   c. When a message is being received as part of an SMTP server session, the data sent after the DATA
      command has been issued are written incrementally to a temporary file.
   d. Prior to this release a pop server session was already feeding the client with data directly from
      disk as part of a RETR command. This has been altered so that a chunk of data (and not a single line
      from the file) is read from disk and forwarded to the pop3 client.
The chunk size for all these cases was initially set to 500 lines. This seemed like a nice trade off between
disk I/O and memory footprint. While testing a JES server running on a single core pc with 5 SMTPProcessors
and 5 POP3Processors by actively engaging all 5 smtp processors, used memory would not exceed 40 MiB during
the entire test run. Please note that during the test a password dialog popped up at server start up, thus
the max memory size could have been as low as 32 MiB. Unfortunately it would appear that certain SMTP
servers employ a particular timeout policy that leads to a dropped connection. The chunk size was reduced
to 250 lines and the problem appears to have been addressed.

Mail recipients are now grouped by domain, so that when contacting a remote domain a message is delivered
to multiple recipients to that domain.

Added the ability to issue commands to the server from a (internal network only) socket connection. Only a
command to add a user has been implemented at this time. See mail.conf.

Added the ability to augment the capabilities of the server by incorporating external modules. These modules
have to extend the interfaces defined in com.ericdaugherty.mail.external (only PassReceivedLocalMessage
available at this time), contain the line 'public static final String moduleType = "InterfaceName";', the
compiled jar file simply has to be placed in the installation 'external' folder and be added to the class path
via wrapper.conf in a line like wrapper.java.classpath.x=<JES.install.dir>/external/<externalmodulename>.jar.
In the case of 'PassReceivedLocalMessage' the implementing class MUST be run on a separate thread, otherwise
the server will be bogged down. Implement at your own risk.

For already existing JES 1.6.1 installations a migration tool is included to automatically adjust
SMTP messages and the user.conf to the version 2 format. Please read the AdditionalNotes.

Under a Unix operating system, JES will start as a privileged user (the root) to bind to ports
<1024 (such as the smtp port 25) and drop to the unprivileged jeserver one as soon as startup
is complete.

Implemented a high-level testing framework. Such a framework doesn't check the results
of low-level operations such as class methods directly. Rather, it establishes fully functional
instances of the application and verifies its end products, in this case e-mail messages, for
validity and consistency. An altered version of the columba mail client is used as a smtp/pop3
client for the tests.

The keystore password acquisition system has been designed to allow proper JES operation in unix-likes
and windows. Possibly along with (a) kerberos 5 principal password(s), they have to be made available
to JES through the file explicitly named "password" in the security directory. The format of this file
follows Properties file conventions. The keystore password is supplied as keystore=password. The
kerberos password(s) is (are) supplied through (a) <protocol>=password entry(ies). The entry order has
no importance. JES reads the password file at startup and if this is the first time recording passwords,
it generates a secret key with which it encrypts the password entry(ies) and stores it(them) to a file
as a java sealed object. If at a later date (a) password(s) need(s) to be updated then a password file
with a password for the entry(ies) of interest need(s) to be supplied. JES always deletes the cleartext
password(s) password file and stores the encrypted entries. The key used for encryption is persisted to
the security directory and all access to it is restricted to the root user in unix(-likes) or the
administrators group and system user in windows. Should there be a need for a password that has not been
supplied by a password file JES will display a pop up window requesting the password. But only if Java
is not running headless, otherwise a runtime exception is thrown. In this fashion JES can be started as
a service not only in windows but also in unix-likes.

A warning message appears on screen whenever a configuration file is updated, asking for
confirmation before applying any changes. This option can be disabled using the notify.disable entry
in mail.conf, but only under certain restrictions. See the relative entry in mail.conf.

JES can now be configured to inform the default user by e-mail that the user/mail.conf files have been
modified.

Added the ability to enable/disable acceptance of the HELO command during a SMTP receiver session. This
doesn't contradict the specification since the server still supports the command, but rejects it in
order to protect user/message confidentiality. Otherwise, simply accepting it on all occasions cancels
any security context.

Significant change to the internal structure of JES. All message persistence code has been detached
from the relative mail session classes and now resides in package com.ericdaugherty.mail.server.
persistence. This will allow the addition of other persistence mechanisms (such as a JDBC powered
one). Furthermore, the authentication granting code has also been moved to a dedicated package (com.
ericdaugherty.mail.server.auth). The delivery to local domain users process has been detached from the
SMTPSender code as well.

MIME support has been significantly upgraded. Moved the mime processing code to separate classes. Also
corrected the handling of nested message mime parts (specifically message/rfc822 which is used when
a client forwards a message).

All three modules (SMTP Processor, SMTP Sender, Pop3 Processor) use byte level streams during a
session for sending/receiving message data and human-readable streams when exchanging protocol
specific messages.

Full support for 8BITMIME. JES declares (and employs) the ability to receive messages using 8BITMIME
during a mail transaction as a SMTP server. Moreover if a message is received with a 8BITMIME flag
and the server responsible for handling the recipient's messages doesn't support 8BITMIME, JES
will transform the 8 bit mime parts on the fly as it transmits them.

User and realm configuration files now support all available character set encodings. This results to
attaining the ability to use non latin1(us-ascii,iso-8859-1) characters for passwords and realms.
Standard restrictions still apply for usernames and domains.

Refined and augmented the authentication mechanisms. Proper support for LOGIN and PLAIN. Fully
implemented the digest-md5 and gssapi (Kerberos 5) sasl authentication mechanisms. Messages
exchanged between jes operating as a smtp(pop3) receiver and a smtp(pop3) client can be either
integrity or confidentiality protected should the client request it.

How clear text passwords are treated can be defined in mail.conf separately for smtp and pop3 server
sessions.

In conjunction with the introduction of the DIGEST-MD5 authentication mechanism, realms have been added.
Please take a look at realms.conf.

A delay DSN is sent to the message originator if more than 15 minutes have passed without delivering the message.

The SMTP Server now supports TLS/SSL both for incoming and outgoing mail. The standard port (e.g. 25) will
implement a security layer if the handshake succeeds or it will abort the transaction. Take note that if
the connecting party doesn't demand/support a secure connection the transaction will proceed without a
security layer. A dedicated secure only listening port can be independently setup (usually on port 465).

The POP3 Server now supports TLS/SSL. The standard port (e.g. 110) will implement a security layer if the
handshake succeeds or it will abort the transaction. Take note that if the connecting party doesn't
demand/support a secure connection the transaction will proceed without a security layer. A dedicated
secure only listening port can be independently setup (usually on port 995).

Use of TLS/SSL on standard ports is controlled separately for SMTP and POP3 server sessions.

Control the use of TLS/SSL for all outgoing SMTP sessions.

Added a security policy concerning mail recipients in SMTP server mode.

Added policy control for the number of authentication attempts allowed to a connecting SMTP/POP3 client.

Care has been taken so that header and message integrity is not compromised.

No file locking on mail.conf, user.conf and reverseDNS.conf.

The SMTP Server is RFC2821 compliant and supports the EHLO Mail Service Type for both the incoming and
outgoing connections.

The POP3 Server is RFC1939 compliant.

An incoming mail that is only plain/text or mail that (also) contains plain/text sub-bodies that are
in a non standard mail character encoding (flagged with a "content transfer encoding: 8bit") is
automatically converted to 7bit using base64 encoding unless the server has been configured to accept
8BITMIME messages and the message being received has the corresponding flag.

The keystore holding the certificates used for TLS/SSL can be one placed in the security directory or defined
in the mail.conf file. See mail.conf for details.

If the application has initiated shut down, the configuration files are no longer monitored.

Separate thread count for standard and secure services.

Using TLS/SSL on standard services can be turned off.

The dedicated secure SMTP/POP3 modules need not be activated.

Added a maximum count of 3 attempts to validate a username and password in a POP3 session.

The POP3 (POP3processor)  and SMTP Server (SMTPProcessor)  modules (both standard and secure) monitor the
errors of a session and will abort if too many errors are encountered (the maximum error count is defined
in mail.conf).

No mail bouncing for NULL <reverse-path> mails.

Proper session timeouts have been incorporated.

The maximum message size is now used during a SMTP session via the SIZE extension and an added MAIL FROM: argument.

Added a module monitor that logs active application modules every 5 minutes.

Various bug fixes.

Various additions, remedies or alterations to increase conformity to the acceptable standards.


1.6.1 - Release 02/02/2008

Updated mail.conf to remove extra trailing semicolin from "smtpdelivery.threshold=10" Thanks to Siegfried Goeschl 
(siegfried.goeschl@it20one.at).

Updated mail.sh to accept a configuration directory as a command line parameter.  Thanks to Siegfried Goeschl 
(siegfried.goeschl@it20one.at).

Updated bulid.xml to build with JDK version 1.4 (minimum needed for codebase).  Thanks to Siegfried Goeschl
(siegfried.goeschl@it20one.at).

Fixed error in SMTPRemoteSender introduced in release 1.5.  Server would fail to look up MX entries when
not using a default SMTP server.  Thanks to Philipp Hagemeister for tracking this issue down.

1.6 - Release 11/18/2007

Server adds FROM address if message is received without one (unknown@example.com).  Server would
accept the messages but throw errors when it tried to deliver them: "Unable to parse the address from the stored file."
Thanks to Matthew Lohbihler of Serotonin Software (serotoninsoftware.com) for providing this fix.

Added socket timeout to SMTP processor sockets.  This may address issues with threads getting hung in socket.read calls.
Thanks to Matthew Lohbihler of Serotonin Software (serotoninsoftware.com) for providing this fix.

1.5 - Release 08/05/2007

New Features:

Added the ability to use a default SMTP server that requires authentication.  This
can be useful if your ISP prohibits outbound connections on port 25 and forces you 
to authenticate with their default SMTP server.  Thanks to Matthew Lohbihler of 
Serotonin Software (serotoninsoftware.com) for adding this feature.

1.4 - Release 07/13/2004

New Features:

Added the option to limit the maximum size for incoming messages.  The
configuration parameter is in megabytes (2^10) and defaults to 5.

Added the ability to specify a port number for the outgoing SMPT servers.
Thanks to Philippe Reverdy (http://preverdy.free.fr/preverdy/utilities.html)

Added new configuration option to allow relaying based on 'from' email
address.  This can be used to easily allow relaying for users
based their address or an entire domain.  However, this can be risky
and should be used with cation as there is no protection from others
'spoofing' the from address to send spam.
Thanks to Philippe Reverdy (http://preverdy.free.fr/preverdy/utilities.html)

1.3.4 - Release 02/12/2004

New Features:

Added a maximum delivery attempts configuration property before a message fails.
Message re-delivery attempt intervals are exponentially increased, up to a maximum
interval of 17 hours (1024 minutes).  Thanks to Andrei Makalski and
Al Lieb (ootletemp-jes@yahoo.com) for their contributions.

Bug Fixes:

Miscellaneous code cleanup:
Cleaned up SMTPSender try/catch block.
Added logic to handle null result of DNS Lookup.
Fixed issue with MX entry sorting.
Thanks to Al Lieb (ootletemp-jes@yahoo.com) for the patches.

1.3.3 - Release 11/24/2003

New Features:

Addes a new header "X-DeliveredTo: admin@mydomain.com" to locally delivered email.
This allows users who use multiple local addresses that are delivered to a single
mail box to track which user the message was addressed to.  Thanks to Shmuel Siegel
for the suggestion.

Bug Fixes:

Fixed error with delivery address resolution. SourceForge Bug #848417.  The resolution
of the local address was also incorrect and has been fixed.
Thanks to Shmuel Siegel for the bug report.

Fixed handling of blank listenAddress.  Previous version default to the localhost name,
while the new version uses the simpler ServerSocket constructor.
Thanks to Shmuel Siegel for the bug report.

1.3.2 - Release 11/18/2003

New Features:

Added test DNS lookup utility and additional site documentation,
thanks to Martin Cordova <mcordova@megasoft.com.ve>

Added ability to bind JES to a single IP address.

Bug Fixes:

Resolved an issue with the loading of forward addresses from the 
user.conf file.

Forward Addresses are now resolved when the message is received.
Previously, message delivery to forwarded addresses could be
unpredictable of one of the multiple forward addresses failed.

Added better logging to SMTPSender class.

1.3.1 - Release 10/16/2003

Bug Fixes:

Setting the defaultsmtpserver property was causing an error on startup.

Fixed handling of username case.

1.3 - Release 10/16/2003

This release contains major feature enhancements and code
rework.

New Features:

Utilize Jakarta commons-logging to remove required dependency 
of Log4j.  Default Logger just writes to the console and also
can write to a file.  Log4j is still used by default.  Log4j
configuration can now be controlled using log.conf, and updated
while the server is running.

Support for NT Service!  A batch file has been included in the bin
directory to install JES as a NT Service.  Paul Thordarson
<ptt@tgbsoftware.com> helped with the script.

Reworked configuration.  Configuration is now split into three
files: mail.conf, user.conf, log.conf.  mail.conf and user.conf
files will be reloaded automatically after a change while the server
is running.  The user.conf file can be edited with plaintext passwords,
and they will be hashed and resaved by the server automatically.  This removes
the need for the GUI configuration tool, which is now gone.

Added support for multiple SMTP Relay rules.  Can now enable POP Before SMTP
and IP based relaying individually or together.  IP Based relaying now also
supports wildcards.  These settings can be changed without restarting the server.

Bug Fixes:

The SMTP Server would accept the data command even if the
client had not specified any valid recipients.  This has been fixed.
Thanks to Shmuel Siegel for the bug report.

1.2.4 - Release 9/2/2003

Bug Fixes:

Added entry: Delivery.smtprelaytype=NONE to the default configuration
file.  This addresses bug: 768385 submitted by: mariusz_grey

Upgraded DNSJava library to 1.3.3.

Enhanced DNS lookups to order MX Entries.

Added Socket Timeout for SMTP Delivery.  This addresses bug: 783119

1.2.3 - Release 7/1/2003

New Features:

Added address based SMTP forwarding (Added by Scott Schrecken).

Bug Fixes:

Fixed JavaDoc tags and included JavaDoc comments in release.

Updated UNIX/Linux shell scripts.

1.2.2 - Release 2/7/2003

Bug Fixes:

Resolved Linux compatability issue.  Incorrect line termination
was being used by the println method.  Fix provided by: 
B0NFiRE (www.fdns.net)

1.2.1 - Release 12/30/2002

New Features:

Integrated newest release of DaughertyLib (2.0) to enable JDK 1.4 Support.

Improved implementation of the shutdown() method.  Update written by:
Siegfried Goeschl (siegfried.goeschl@it20one.at)

Added runtime hook to call the shutdown method when the VM is shutdown 
(CRTL-C from the command line).  Update written by: Siegfried Goeschl 
(siegfried.goeschl@it20one.at).
---


Version 1.2 - Release 5/20/2002

Bug Fixes:

Resolved NullPointerException in DNSService that occured when no MX Entries 
were found. 
Now allow empty MAIL FROM:<> command. 
Resolved case sensitivity in email addresses. 

New Features:

Added hook to shutdown server gracefully. Static shutdown() method added 
to Mail class.   However, this feature is not currently exposed. Users may 
wrap the Mail class to provide their own shutdown triggers. 
---


Version 1.1 - Released 10/29/2001

Changes:

Config Tool: Default User Combo Box did not refresh when a new user is added.  Fixed.
SMTP Sender was unable to handle servers with multi-line responses.  Fixed.
POP Server did not respond to RSET command.  Fixed.
Added implementation of optional UIDL and TOP commands in the POP server.
---


Version 1.0 - Released 7/16/2001


Future Enhancements
-------------------
Planned future enhancments include:

No major enhancements are planed for the 1.x version.  Development has started
on a new branch that will become the 2.0 release.
